---
layout     : post
title      : "Net Art: Room Reveal!"
date       : 2022-10-06
categories : Creative Coding
---

### Final product!

Here it issss....
 <br>

<iframe width=600 height=642 style="display: block; margin: 0 auto" src="https://editor.p5js.org/elishafitri/full/eDwJMpgPy"></iframe>

<br> 

When the user clicks on the canvas, depending on where the x-position of the mouse, a whooshing sound effect will play, to mimic the sound of the room flying towards (or from) the user. On the mouseclick, the blue trail of the room will also begin to move, kind of like the room is flying at high speed. And when the user drags the mouse across the x-axis, the room will scale up or down.

<br> <br>

### Additions and improvements
I organised my code into the background and foreground components, putting the background elements into a separate class and .js file. This background just comprised of the small ellipses to resemble blinking stars. They are randomised, and the background has an alpha to it, so they do not flash too abruptly. I also added a `drawingContext()` property with a blurred coloured shadow to achieve a glowing effect. 

<br> <br>
In the main sketch, there is the structure which I had tested in the previous blogpost, as well as the black hole in the middle of the floor. I remembered I needed to include a recursive function in my project, so I thought about using it for the black hole. I tested out the differences between the original For Loop that I previously tested, and I think the second function turned out better:

<br>

<iframe width=600 height=442 style="display: block; margin: 0 auto" src="https://editor.p5js.org/elishafitri/full/cnR8m5l7j"></iframe>

  


<details>
  <summary>References</summary>
  
  1. dmkldlkadad

  ```
</details>

<br> <br> <br>

  [Back to home](https://elishafitri.github.io/)
  

